Contoso01Labs Active Directory Configuration
1. Domain Controller Configuration
 
    Domain Name: contoso01labs.local
    NetBIOS Name: CONTOSO01labs
    Forest Functional Level: Windows Server 2016
    Domain Functional Level: Windows Server 2016

2. Servers

    Domain Controller (PDC): DC
    Additional Domain Controller: DC1
    File Server: FS
    Application Server: APP
    Web Server: WEB

3. Organizational Units (OUs)

    Contoso01Labs
        Users
            Admin Users
            Standard Users
            Service Accounts
        Computers
            Workstations
            Servers
        Groups
            Admin Groups
            Standard Groups
        Policies
            GPOs

4. Users and Groups

    Administrative Users:
        Admin User: contosolabs\admin01
        Password Policy: Complex passwords, minimum length 12 characters, changed every 90 days.

    Standard Users:
        User accounts will follow the format first.last@contoso01labs.local
        Password Policy: Complex passwords, minimum length 8 characters, changed every 90 days.

    Groups:
        Admin Groups: Domain Admins, Enterprise Admins, Server Admins, Workstation Admins
        Standard Groups: HR, IT, Sales, Marketing

5. Service Accounts

    Naming Convention: svc_{service}
        Example: svc_backup, svc_sql

    Account Policies:
        Passwords never expire
        Cannot change password
        Minimal privileges necessary

6. Group Policy Objects (GPOs)

    Default Domain Policy:
        Enforce password history: 24 passwords remembered
        Maximum password age: 90 days
        Minimum password age: 1 day
        Minimum password length: 8 characters
        Password must meet complexity requirements: Enabled
        Account lockout threshold: 5 invalid logon attempts
        Account lockout duration: 15 minutes
        Reset account lockout counter after: 15 minutes

    Admin Users Policy (linked to Admin Users OU):
        User Rights Assignment:
            Allow log on locally: Administrators
            Deny log on locally: Guests
            Allow log on through Remote Desktop Services: Administrators
        Security Options:
            Accounts: Administrator account status: Enabled
            Accounts: Guest account status: Disabled
            Interactive logon: Do not display last user name: Enabled

    Workstation Policy (linked to Workstations OU):
        Windows Components:
            Windows Update: Auto download and schedule the install
            Windows Defender Antivirus: Enabled
        Administrative Templates:
            Control Panel: Prohibit access to Control Panel and PC settings: Enabled
            System: Allow users to connect remotely using Remote Desktop Services: Disabled

    Server Policy (linked to Servers OU):
        User Rights Assignment:
            Allow log on through Remote Desktop Services: Administrators, Server Admins
        Security Options:
            Network security: LAN Manager authentication level: Send NTLMv2 response only. Refuse LM & NTLM

7. Additional Configuration

    DNS Configuration:
        Primary DNS Server: DC
        Secondary DNS Server: DC1

    DHCP Configuration:
        Scope DMZ: 192.168.0.100 - 192.168.0.200
        Lease Duration: 8 days
        Reservations: Critical servers and devices
        Scope Workstations
        Scope IOT
        Scope Family
        Scope XBOXTV
        Scope TEMPMONITORS
        Scope Cameras
        Scope Alarms

    File Server Configuration (FS01):
        Shares:
            Public: \FS\Public (Everyone: Read)
            Department Shares: \FS\Dept (Department-specific permissions)
        Quotas: Implement quotas for department shares (e.g., 50 GB per department)

    Backup Configuration:
        Backup Server: BKP01
        Backup Schedule: Daily incremental, weekly full
        Backup Software: Windows Server Backup

Summary

This configuration covers the initial setup of the Contoso01Labs Active Directory environment, including domain controllers, OUs, user and group policies, service accounts, and additional server configurations. This setup ensures a secure and organized AD infrastructure suitable for a small to medium-sized enterprise.
