Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Daily, Weekly, and Monthly Zabbix Tasks
Version: 1.0

1. Purpose

The purpose of this SOP is to establish routine tasks and procedures for maintaining and using the Zabbix monitoring system on a daily, weekly, and monthly basis. This ensures the system operates effectively and issues are promptly addressed.
2. Scope

This SOP applies to all IT staff responsible for monitoring and maintaining the organization's IT infrastructure using Zabbix.
3. Responsibilities

    IT Administrator: Ensures the SOP is followed and tasks are completed.
    System Administrators: Execute daily, weekly, and monthly tasks as outlined.
    Network Administrators: Assist with tasks that involve network-related monitoring.
    IT Support Staff: Respond to alerts and perform corrective actions as needed.

4. Daily Tasks
4.1 Check Zabbix Server Status

    Log in to the Zabbix server.

    Run the following command to check the status:

    sudo systemctl status zabbix-server

    Ensure the server is running without errors.

4.2 Review Dashboard

    Log in to the Zabbix web interface.
    Check the dashboard for any critical issues or alerts.
    Investigate and resolve any high-severity issues immediately.

4.3 Monitor System Performance

    Go to "Monitoring" -> "Latest data".
    Review the performance metrics of critical systems.
    Ensure no system is showing signs of performance degradation or failure.

4.4 Check Event Logs

    Navigate to "Monitoring" -> "Events".
    Review recent events and alerts.
    Document any recurring issues and investigate their root cause.

5. Weekly Tasks
5.1 Review and Update Hosts

    Navigate to "Configuration" -> "Hosts".
    Ensure all critical hosts are being monitored.
    Add or remove hosts as needed based on infrastructure changes.

5.2 Validate Triggers and Alerts

    Go to "Configuration" -> "Triggers".
    Review trigger conditions and ensure they are still relevant.
    Update or disable triggers that are no longer applicable.

5.3 Backup Zabbix Configuration

    Perform a backup of the Zabbix configuration database:

    mysqldump -u zabbix -p zabbix > /path/to/backup/zabbix_$(date +%F).sql

    Store the backup securely.

5.4 Review User Activity

    Navigate to "Administration" -> "Audit".
    Review the actions performed by users.
    Ensure there are no unauthorized changes or suspicious activities.

6. Monthly Tasks
6.1 System Health Check

    Perform a comprehensive health check of the Zabbix server.
    Ensure the server has sufficient resources (CPU, memory, disk space).
    Address any resource bottlenecks.

6.2 Review and Update Templates

    Navigate to "Configuration" -> "Templates".
    Ensure all templates are up-to-date and relevant.
    Modify templates to reflect any changes in monitoring requirements.

6.3 Test Alerting Mechanisms

    Verify that email, SMS, and other notification methods are functioning correctly.
    Perform test alerts to confirm proper configuration.

6.4 Performance Tuning

    Analyze the performance of the Zabbix server and database.
    Optimize configurations as needed to ensure efficient operation.
    Review and adjust the housekeeping settings to manage historical data efficiently.

6.5 Update Zabbix Software

    Check for new releases or patches for Zabbix.
    Plan and perform updates in a maintenance window to minimize impact.
    Follow Zabbix's official documentation for the update process.

7. Documentation and Reporting
7.1 Daily Reports

    Document any critical issues or incidents.
    Maintain a log of actions taken to resolve issues.

7.2 Weekly Reports

    Summarize weekly activities, including any significant changes or updates.
    Highlight recurring issues and potential improvements.

7.3 Monthly Reports

    Provide a detailed report on the overall health and performance of the monitoring system.
    Include recommendations for improvements or necessary changes.

8. Review and Update

This SOP should be reviewed annually and updated as necessary to ensure it reflects current practices and changes in the Zabbix monitoring environment.

Approved by:

Date:

This SOP establishes a consistent approach to maintaining and using Zabbix, ensuring that monitoring tasks are performed regularly and issues are addressed promptly, thereby maintaining the integrity and efficiency of the IT infrastructure.
